Welcome back.
In this video you're finally going to get to use the new async await functionality.
We're going to create an alternative version of this get status function and we're going to call it
get status alt so we can go ahead and actually define that right here.
Cost get status.
Alt.
Now it's still going to be a function.
So we're going to start off by creating an arrow function and we're still going to take in an argument
so we'll define that right here.
User ID now though we're going to switch things up instead of working through the old example.
We're going to use the new async await functionality to explore this.
Let's temporarily comment out this code right here.
We'll be recreating it with a call to get status alt as opposed to a call to get status.
But I do want to leave the old code in place so we can directly compare and contrast the differences.
The new async await functionality is going to allow us to write this in a way that looks like synchronous
code which means that we'll be able to avoid things like then callbacks promise chaining and work arounds
like creating a user variable in this scope temporarily setting it here just to use it down below with
async await.
We're going be able to avoid all of that stuff.
Creating a function that's just a whole lot easier to read alter work with and test.
Now get status Allt is going to start off in a way that is super boring.
We're going to return the string.
Mike this is javascript 101 stuff you would expect Mike to come back if I Konsole logged Whatever comes
back from get status alt nothing earth shattering here.
Let's just go ahead and work through this so we're going to save the file gnomon is going to restart
hopefully soon.
And then we get we have Mike printing to the screen that's exactly what I would expect.
Now with a wait we actually mark our functions as special functions.
So I have a few functions here.
We're going to be marking this one as a special async function.
So in the future async away there are two words async and a weight.
These aren't just words.
These are actual keywords that were going to be typing out exactly as you see them here.
The first one a wait will eventually get used inside of our async functions.
But before we can ever use a wait we have to mark that function as a sig.
So we're going to do that first.
We're going to explore it.
Then we'll move on to a wait right here.
All we're going to do is add a sink in front of our arguments list with a space.
Now this is actually going to change how the code below works to explore that all we're going to do
is save the file and see what we get instead of getting the string Mike back you can see we're now getting
a promise back.
We're getting a promise back that resolves the string.
MIKE So this brings us to the first big difference between regular functions and async functions regular
functions return strings and strings come back async functions.
They always always return promises if you return something from an async function.
It's actually returning a promise and it's resolving this value.
So this function is equivalent to what I'm about to write.
You don't have to write this out.
I'm going to delete it in just a second.
It is equivalent to creating a function that returns a new promise where that new promise gets resolved
and reject and then it calls resolve with Mike.
These two are identical.
They have the exact same functionality.
We create a new promise.
We resolve Mike or we use an async function that simply returns something that is a lesson one.
When you have an async function whenever you return it is actually just going to get resolved which
means that we can switch up this usage right here.
I'm going to call get status alt this time.
We're getting a promise back and we know that so we can just use then what are we going to get back.
We're going to get back the return value as our resolved value.
If I returned a string I'd get a string back here a number I'd get a number of bullion an object a function
whatever you explicitly returned from this function is going to be available as if it was resolved which
means that I can create a name variable like a log at counsel dot log in name.
Now what are we getting it back inside of Nordman.
We're just going to get back Mike once again.
The regular plain old string because we've added on a piece of promise based chaining.
We then get the name and we print it out and here Mike Prince once again.
So if returning a value is equivalent to resolving how do we reject.
If I wanted to reject an error like this is an error.
How do I go about doing that with the new async feature.
All we do is we throw a new error using standard javascript techniques throw a new error with a message.
This is an error.
This is equivalent to what we have up above.
Using techniques you already know about when you throw a new error from an async function it is exactly
the same as rejecting some value.
So in this case we go ahead and use that error by adding one catch like we would if it was a regular
old promise.
We're going to get the error back and I'll use council dot log to print it to the screen if it occurs
and it's always going to occur because I throw it right here on line.
What if I save the file gnomon restarts and we get error.
This is an error printing to the screen.
So those are the first two important things you need to know about async functions.
Before we go any further and use wait.
Returning something is equivalent to resolving end throwing an error is equivalent to rejecting.
We always get a promise back.
So at this point we have only used half of the feature reviews the async part which alone is not particularly
useful.
It gets really useful when we combine it with a weight.
So let's go ahead and start taking a look at that.
That's going to allow us to introduce the other functions back into play get grades and get user right
year.
We're just going to go ahead and use a way then we'll talk about exactly what's happening.
So for the moment.
Bear with me and just type out this line.
Konst user equals and we're going to set it equal to.
We're going to use the Awake keyword We'll talk about this in just a second.
We're going to call get user.
And we're going to pass in the User ID.
So let's start breaking this line down.
This We've done this before.
We're calling get user with a user id it returns and promise.
We have the exact same code right here.
We've also done this about a billion times.
We're creating a new variable user and it's a constant.
It's this part that's new.
So we await key word.
As I mentioned earlier it has to be used in an async function and we're meeting that criteria.
We have an async function which means we can use a weight inside of it.
We use a wait just before a promise.
So here we get a promise back.
So we're waiting for that promise to either resolve or reject if that promise resolves the result of
this expression is going to be the resolved value which means that resolves value will get stored in
the User variable.
If the promise rejects it is going to be equivalent to throwing an error which means no user variable
will ever be created the function will stop executing and we'll get that error down below inside of
catch.
Let's go ahead and actually play around with this what I'm going to do is pass an ID and to get status
all.
Let's go ahead and use Jessica and we're going to do is console log user to the screen.
We want to see what user equals now gnomon is going to restart in the background in my gnomon got cleared
before.
Right here we have our object with an ID of two with the name of Jessica and the school ID of 9 9 9.
So without a wait we would be getting a promise back here with a way we're able to actually get that
value back which is equivalent to what we did up above it's equivalent to this stuff where we got access
to the user and we did something with it.
But using async await we're able to do this in a way that looks very very synchronous.
Now we can apply this exact same technique to getting the grades down below.
We're going to make a contest called grades.
We want those grades back.
What we don't want to do is create stupid temporary variables and complex chaining and nesting.
We just want to get the grades.
So we're going to await the following promise to either resolve or reject the one that comes back from
get grades when we pass in a valid school ID user dot school I.
D.
This is going to return the grades right for that user will be able to dump them to the screen.
So right here we are getting the object and the grades for Jessica.
She just has one grade.
So we have an array with a single object inside of it.
We're not getting back a promise.
We are getting back a regular old array.
The same thing is true for Andrew.
He's going to add those two grades they're all going to come back and if I switch this up to an ID that's
not valid we're going to get our error.
Unable to find user with an ID of 2:59 that is because this rejects which is equivalent to throwing
an error.
And we saw that when we throw an error from an async function with access to it via a catch.
So at this point we have our user we have our grades and we're ready to move on to the final step which
is the actual important stuff.
So far we're just getting data and I took a few lines of code and it required us to nest things at this
point.
We can take this code exactly as it sits.
This code relies on a user variable which we have and a grade's variable which we also have.
So we can take it and copy it right here.
Perfect.
Now we set up our average variable we calculate the average if there are grades and we return our status.
At this point we can use the status here and we can print it here.
And let's change it back to one or two some ID that does exist this time when javascript runs through
get status alt it is actually going to return the correct status.
Andrew has in 83 in the class and Jessica has a 100 in the class and we were able to do all of this
without a single callback no chaining no nesting just regular old code that looks like synchronous code.
We create a user variable.
Nothing else runs until this process resolves or rejects.
We then create the grades variable.
Nothing else runs until this promise resolves or rejects and we're actually using user right here.
What you don't have until the previous line completes.
But that's fine because we're in a sync.
Oh wait this line than this line then the rest of the code which is all normal code.
So we go through all of the steps.
We get our status back.
We were able to take this code and get it down into this code.
Now I don't know about you but this is way more readable maintainable and understandable than what we
have up above.
Using async away we're going to able to do just that.
We're going to be able to write better more concise promise based code.
Now you'll notice that I'm not using a wait on the functions up above.
There is no need to because we don't need a sync inside of them.
And one more important thing to note there is no top level of weight so I can't do something like this.
Right here Konst status equals a weight get status Allt.
This is not valid.
There is no top level of weight you have to use a weight inside of an async function.
So in our case all that means is that we do use a little chaining at the end but when we are working
with complex chains we are able to use async await to get the job done.
So that is it for this video.
At this point I don't expect you to be able to use async away on your own.
We're going to run through another example using real API eyes.
That's going to give us a little more real world experience.
I'm excited to get to see it in the next one.